INSTALLING rgl

This file is part of a source distribution of the rgl package for R.
Most users should be able to use binary builds of the package, and
won't need to follow these instructions.

General

In general, all systems use the same 3 steps to install rgl.  

1.  Collect the necessary libraries/headers etc.  These vary from
    system to system; see the hints below.
    
2.a)  Obtain the tarball containing the rgl source from a CRAN mirror
    (you can start at
    http://cran.r-project.org/src/contrib/Descriptions/rgl.html).  The
    source tarball has a name of the form rgl_0.70.tar.gz, where the
    0.70 will be replaced as newer versions are released.
    
  b)  Alternatively, obtain the source by checking it out of the
    repository using Subversion.  The URL is
    https://devel.neoscientists.org/svn/rgl/trunk for the development
    version.  Check it out to a directory named "rgl".
    
3.a)  Run "R CMD INSTALL rgl_0.70.tar.gz" with enough permissions to
    compile and install to your R library.
    
  b)  Alternatively, run "R CMD INSTALL rgl", if "rgl" is the
    directory name.
  
  
Steps 2 and 3 can be done from within R by

> install.packages("rgl")

to use a package from CRAN.  


Windows instructions:

Most Windows users should be using a binary build.  To build rgl on
Windows, you need a source installation of R and all the tools
necessary to build it.  Build R first, being sure to build the bitmap
dlls.  Then the instructions above should work if you use the R.exe
from that build.

If you just get the tools but don't build the R bitmap dlls, the
functions for snapshots and other bitmap conversions will not work.


Mac OSX instructions:

(Someone who knows please tell me.)


*nix instructions:

The most likely problem with the instructions above are that some of
the necessary libraries or header files are missing on your system.
Some files that have been reported as necessary additions:

FC6 32 bit:  mesa-libGLU-devel, libXext-devel (obtained using yum).
